SPLAT-950: doc/aws-sts : steps to migrate from public bucket to private issuer URL (#515)
openshift/cloud-credential-operator: docs/sts-migrate-to-private-bucket.md

# AWS Security Token Service - Steps to Migrate the OIDC issuer from public S3 Bucket to CloudFront Distribution

> NOTE: the steps described in this document are not supported or recommended to be done in a production environment.

- [Prerequisites](#Prerequisites)
- [Test the existing token](#test-token)
- [Setup new OIDC with CloudFront Distribution](#setup)
    - [Create the CloudFront Distribution](#setup-cloudfront)
    - [Create and patch the new OIDC discovery documents and JWKS](#setup-oidc-documents)
    - [Create the new OIDC using CloudFront Distribution](#setup-oidc-idp)
- [Backing up current cluster data](#backup)
- [Patch the cluster to use the new OIDC](#patch-cluster)
- [Revoke public access to S3 Bucket](#revoke-s3-public-access)
- [Rollback to OIDC with S3 Public URL](#rollback)
- [Rollback to OIDC with S3 Public URL](#delete)

## Prerequisites <a name="Prerequisites"></a>

> - An OCP Cluster created on AWS with manual authentication mode with STS using S3 Bucket as OIDC URL (issuerURL)

Reviewer: "manual authentication mode" changed to "authentication mode".
In my understanding, manual means the component creds created manually.

export CLUSTER_REGION=$(oc get authentication cluster -o jsonpath={'.spec.serviceAccountIssuer'} | awk -F'://' '{print$2}' |awk -F'.' '{print$3}')
```

- Make sure you can reach (read) the S3 Bucket created with the default name

```bash
aws s3 ls --region $CLUSTER_REGION s3://$OIDC_BUCKET_NAME
```

- A clean work directory: a lot of files will be created, make sure you switched to a new work directory to save the files properly (it can be used in the future for rollback)

## Test the existing token <a name="test-token"></a>

This section is to make sure everything is working correctly in your existing environment.

The steps described below will use the credentials provided to the `machine-api` component, trying to assume the role using `aws-cli`.

It's expected that the existing token will be able to authenticate in AWS. Otherwise, you must abort the operations and do not try to run any step described in the next sections

```bash
## test existing token
# Get Token path from AWS credentials mounted to pod
TOKEN_PATH=$(oc get secrets aws-cloud-credentials \
    -n openshift-machine-api \
    -o jsonpath='{.data.credentials}' |\
    base64 -d |\

>     grep ^web_identity_token_file |\

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    grep "^web_identity_token_file" |\
```

I ran into an issue re-running this and quoting the grep solved the problem for me. Local fedora grep difference maybe?

```sh
# Copy pasting into terminal
➜  TOKEN_PATH=$(oc get secrets aws-cloud-credentials \                                                                                                                  cmdsubst>     -n openshift-machine-api \
cmdsubst>     -o jsonpath='{.data.credentials}' |\
cmdsubst pipe>     base64 -d |\
cmdsubst pipe pipe>     grep ^web_identity_token_file |\
cmdsubst pipe pipe pipe>     awk '{print$3}')
grep: ccoctl: binary file matches
grep: current-cluster: Is a directory
grep: new-oidc: Is a directory
```

    awk '{print$3}')

# Get Controler's pod
CAPI_POD=$(oc get pods -n openshift-machine-api \
    -l api=clusterapi \
    -o jsonpath='{.items[*].metadata.name}')

# Extract tokens from the pod
TOKEN=$(oc exec -n openshift-machine-api ${CAPI_POD} \
    -c machine-controller -- cat ${TOKEN_PATH})

echo $TOKEN | awk -F. '{ print $2 }' | base64 -d 2>/dev/null | jq .iss

IAM_ROLE=$(oc get secrets aws-cloud-credentials \
    -n openshift-machine-api \
    -o jsonpath='{.data.credentials}' |\
    base64 -d |\

>     grep ^role_arn |\

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    grep "^role_arn" |\
```

    awk '{print$3}')

> echo $IAM_ROLE

Author: [comm](https://github.com/openshift/cloud-credential-operator/pull/515#discussion_r1130413552)

aws sts assume-role-with-web-identity \
    --role-arn "${IAM_ROLE}" \
    --role-session-name "my-session" \
    --web-identity-token "${TOKEN}"
```

## Setup new OIDC with CloudFront Distribution <a name="setup"></a>

### Create the CloudFront Distribution <a name="setup-cloudfront"></a>

> - Create the Origin Access Identity (OAI)

Author: OAI now is a legacy mode! We can restrict directly from CloudFront Arn, for example of S3 Bucket policy:

```json
{
        "Version": "2008-10-17",
        "Id": "PolicyForCloudFrontPrivateContent",
        "Statement": [
            {
                "Sid": "AllowCloudFrontServicePrincipal",
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Principal": {
                    "Service": "cloudfront.amazonaws.com"
                },
                "Action": "s3:GetObject",
                "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::oidc-demo.devcluster.openshift.com/*",
                "Condition": {
                    "StringEquals": {
                      "AWS:SourceArn": "arn:aws:cloudfront::[redacted]:distribution/[redacted:CfnDistributionArn]"
                    }
                }
            }
        ]
      }
```

Author: we should replace the steps referencing OAI fixing the bucket policy with the recommended approach.

Author: https://aws.amazon.com/pt/blogs/networking-and-content-delivery/amazon-cloudfront-introduces-origin-access-control-oac/

Author: OAC is an alternative recently added. This document is not covering right know due the priority of this PR. We must consider this in the near future both for ccoctl and docs/template updates

Reviewer 2: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/CCO-347 is the card!

```bash
export DIR_CCO="./"
export OIDC_BUCKET_PATH="/pvt"

export OAI_CLOUDFRONT_ID=$(aws cloudfront create-cloud-front-origin-access-identity \
    --cloud-front-origin-access-identity-config \
    CallerReference="${OIDC_BUCKET_NAME}",Comment="OAI-${OIDC_BUCKET_NAME}" \
    | jq -r .CloudFrontOriginAccessIdentity.Id)
```

- Create the CloudFront Distribution
```bash
# Should be updated to master before merging
#wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift/cloud-credential-operator/master/docs/sts-oidc-cloudfront.json.tpl

> wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mtulio/cloud-credential-operator/doc-sts-updates/docs/sts-oidc-cloudfront.json.tpl

Author: 1) We can use inline json here, to avoid downloading.
2) Do we need to enable the cache policy? The default behavior is not applying any policy. I think setting cache policy to basic cache[A] is fine, while those objects will not be changed, and there is a lot of requests per minute for the same objects - will save costs going to S3.

Possible policy to be used:
![Screenshot from 2023-02-24 00-34-41](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3216894/221086017-5ec46da0-7740-4a44-a713-0ba2d9e1f489.png)

If we decide to enable the cache policy, we must consider tracking the ccoctl changes, and fix the original STS document: https://github.com/openshift/cloud-credential-operator/blob/master/docs/sts-private-bucket.md

Author: Let's keep the note here, not sure if we need to use cache for now. Customers can enable it if they want.

```bash
#TODO: replace to master
#wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift/cloud-credential-operator/master/docs/sts-oidc-bucket-policy.json.tpl
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mtulio/cloud-credential-operator/doc-sts-updates/docs/sts-oidc-bucket-policy.json.tpl
```

- Create the Bucket Policy and apply it

```bash
cat sts-oidc-bucket-policy.json.tpl \
   | envsubst \
   > ${DIR_CCO}/oidc-bucket-policy.json

aws s3api put-bucket-policy \
    --bucket ${OIDC_BUCKET_NAME} \
    --policy file://${DIR_CCO}/oidc-bucket-policy.json
```

Now the CloudFront Distribution must have access to the Bucket object `/pvt/keys.json`, test it:

```
$ curl https://${CLOUDFRONT_HOST}/keys.json
```

### Create the new OIDC using CloudFront Distribution<a name="setup-oidc-idp"></a>

- Extract the service account signer public key, to generate the IdP by `ccoctl`:

```bash
oc get configmap bound-sa-token-signing-certs \
    --namespace openshift-kube-apiserver \
    --output json \
    | jq --raw-output '.data["service-account-001.pub"]' \
    > serviceaccount-signer.public
```

- Generate the IdP files into the local directory `new-oidc`:

```bash

> ./ccoctl aws create-identity-provider \

Reviewer: The random Id issue also exists here.
cluster name is jshu-discon
OIDC_BUCKET_HOST is jshu-discon-19238-oidc.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com
I changed cluster name to jshu-discon-19238 then commands worked.

Author: https://github.com/openshift/cloud-credential-operator/pull/515#discussion_r1130413552

```

- Create the identity provider AWS OIDC:

```bash
aws iam create-open-id-connect-provider \
    --cli-input-json file://${PWD}/new-oidc/04-iam-identity-provider-new.json \
    > ${PWD}/new-oidc//04-iam-identity-provider-object.json 

# Describe or get from file
#export OIDC_ARN=$(aws iam list-open-id-connect-providers |jq -r ".OpenIDConnectProviderList[] | select(.Arn | endswith(\"${CLOUDFRONT_URI}\")).Arn")

export OIDC_ARN=$(jq -r .OpenIDConnectProviderArn ${PWD}/new-oidc//04-iam-identity-provider-object.json)

echo ${OIDC_ARN}
```

## Backup existing state <a name="backup"></a>

- Get Objects and existing tests

```bash
export CURRENT_PATH=$PWD/current-cluster
mkdir $CURRENT_PATH
oc get authentication -o yaml |tee -a $CURRENT_PATH/authentication.yaml

aws sts assume-role-with-web-identity \
    --role-arn "${IAM_ROLE}" \
    --role-session-name "my-session" \
    --web-identity-token "${TOKEN}" \
    | jq -r '.Credentials=""' \
    | tee ${CURRENT_PATH}/identities.json
```

- Save the current IAM Roles

```bash
aws iam list-roles \
    | jq -r  ".Roles[] | select(.RoleName | startswith(\"${CLUSTER_NAME}-openshift\"))" \

>     | tee ${CURRENT_PATH}/iam-roles.json

Reviewer: I encountered the issue here.
When I executed this command, no result found.
My 'CLUSTER_NAME' is jshu-connected and the created role name is like jshu-connected-**21746**-openshift-cloud-credential-operator-cloud-c.
So I revised the command as below and it worked 
[cloud-user@preserve-for-hive-test testdir]$ aws iam list-roles | jq -r  ".Roles[] | select(.RoleName | startswith(\"${CLUSTER_NAME}-**21746**-openshift\"))" | tee ${CURRENT_PATH}/iam-roles.json

Author: As I comment on Slack, I think it is quite related to your environment and how that var is populated when creating the ccoctl. btw I changed the strategy of that vars, discovering it based on tags.
Thanks for reporting it.

```bash
for ROLE_NAME in $(jq -r .RoleName iam-roles-new.json);
do
    echo -e ">>>>>\n#> (1) CURRENT IAM Role \"$ROLE_NAME\":";
    aws iam get-role --role-name $ROLE_NAME | jq .Role;

    echo -e "\n#> (2) NEW IAM Role \"$ROLE_NAME\" AssumeRolePolicyDocument:";
    jq -r ". | select(.RoleName == \"$ROLE_NAME\").AssumeRolePolicyDocument" iam-roles-new.json \
        | tee ${PWD}/iam-roles-new-$ROLE_NAME.json
    
    read -p "ATTENTION: The AssumeRolePolicyDocument for IAM Role(1) will be patched to the value of (2). Do you want to continue? [y/n]: " answer
    if [ -z "$answer" ] || [ "$answer" != "y" ]
    then
        echo "answer[$answer]. Canceling the operation.";
        break
    fi
    echo "Patching..."
    aws iam update-assume-role-policy \
        --role-name $ROLE_NAME \
        --policy-document file:///${PWD}/iam-roles-new-$ROLE_NAME.json
    echo "Done! Return code=$?"
done
```

- Patch the issuer URL to the new OIDC URL on the Authentication object:

```bash
oc patch authentication cluster \
    --type=merge \
    -p "{\"spec\":{\"serviceAccountIssuer\":\"https://${CLOUDFRONT_HOST}\"}}"
```

- Wait for the kube-apiserver rollout

> > Wait to clean the `PROGRESSING=TRUE`. It could take some minutes to start, and several to finish.

Reviewer: "and several ... to finish",seems the unit is missing. In my testing, it was finished in < 10 minutes

```

- Restart all pods:

```bash
for I in $(oc get ns -o jsonpath='{range .items[*]} {.metadata.name}{"\n"} {end}'); \
      do oc delete pods --all -n $I; \
      sleep 1; \
      done
```

- Test the new token

> Repeat the steps in the section "Test the existing token"

> Make sure the JWT token has the CloudFront Distribution Domain name as the Issuer URL, field `.iss`

> Make sure you can assume the role correctly and the signer will be the CloudFront: `.Provider` in the answer from `assume-role-with-web-identity`

If you have completed these steps successfully, the cluster is using the new identity provider with AWS CloudFront.

## Revoke public access to the S3 Bucket<a name="revoke-s3-public-access"></a>

- Change the default policy blocking public access to the bucket:

```bash
aws s3api put-public-access-block \
    --bucket ${OIDC_BUCKET_NAME} \
    --public-access-block-configuration \
    BlockPublicAcls=true,IgnorePublicAcls=true,BlockPublicPolicy=true,RestrictPublicBuckets=true
```

- Test it (expected to fail [HTTP 403])

```bash
curl -vvv https://${OIDC_BUCKET_HOST}/keys.json
```

## Rollback to OIDC with S3 Public URL<a name="rollback"></a>

> When the process to migrate to a private bucket have been failed, and you want to roll back to the OIDC issuer URL pointing to the public S3 Bucket, you must follow the steps below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the process to migrate to a private bucket has failed, and you want to roll back to the OIDC issuer URL pointing to the public S3 Bucket, you must follow the steps below.
```

    jq -r ". | select(.RoleName == \"$ROLE_NAME\").AssumeRolePolicyDocument" ${CURRENT_PATH}/iam-roles.json \
        | tee ${CURRENT_PATH}/iam-roles-rollback-$ROLE_NAME.json
    
    read -p "ATTENTION: The AssumeRolePolicyDocument for IAM Role(1) will be patched to the value of (2). Do you want to continue? [y/n]: " answer
    if [ -z "$answer" ] || [ "$answer" != "y" ]
    then
        echo "answer[$answer]. Canceling the operation.";
        break
    fi
    echo "Patching..."
    aws iam update-assume-role-policy \
        --role-name $ROLE_NAME \
        --policy-document file:///${CURRENT_PATH}/iam-roles-rollback-$ROLE_NAME.json
    echo "Done! Return code=$?"
done
```

- Wait for the kube-apiserver to apply the configuration (PROGRESSING=FALSE)

```bash
$ oc get co kube-apiserver -w
$ oc get pods -n openshift-kube-apiserver -l apiserver=true -w
```

- Restart all pods
```bash
# Restart all pods
for I in $(oc get ns -o jsonpath='{range .items[*]} {.metadata.name}{"\n"} {end}'); \
      do oc delete pods --all -n $I; \
      sleep 1; \
      done
```

## Delete the old OIDC IdP<a name="delete"></a>

> If you run successfully the steps and tested them, you can remove the old OIDC pointing to the S3.

Reviewer: Need to give the command here?

Steps to migrate the OIDC identity provider URL from a public S3 Bucket to a private using AWS CloudFront Distribution to expose the public OpenID Connect documents required in an OpenShift cluster deployed in manual mode with STS on AWS.

> NOTE: the steps described in this document are not supported or recommended to be done in a production environment.

- [Prerequisites](#Prerequisites)
- [Validate and Backup](#validate-backup)
    - [Validate](#validate-token)
    - [Backup](#backup)
- [Migrate](#migrate)
    - [Setup new OIDC with CloudFront Distribution](#setup)
        - [Create the CloudFront Distribution](#setup-cloudfront)
        - [Create and patch the new OIDC discovery documents and JWKS](#setup-oidc-documents)
        - [Create the new OIDC using CloudFront Distribution](#setup-oidc-idp)
    - [Patch the cluster to use the new OIDC](#patch-cluster)
    - [Revoke public access to S3 Bucket](#revoke-s3-public-access)
- [Rollback to OIDC with S3 Public URL](#rollback)
- [Delete the Old OIDC identity provider](#delete)

## Prerequisites <a name="Prerequisites"></a>

1) An OCP Cluster created on AWS with manual mode with STS using S3 Bucket as OIDC URL (issuerURL)

> 2) Export the environment variables below - requireed to be logged on OCP:

Reviewer: typo requireed

# Extract tokens from the pod
TOKEN=$(oc exec -n openshift-machine-api ${CAPI_POD} \
    -c machine-controller -- cat ${TOKEN_PATH})

echo $TOKEN | awk -F. '{ print $2 }' | base64 -d 2>/dev/null | jq .iss

IAM_ROLE=$(oc get secrets aws-cloud-credentials \
    -n openshift-machine-api \
    -o jsonpath='{.data.credentials}' |\
    base64 -d |\
    grep "^role_arn" |\
    awk '{print$3}')

echo $IAM_ROLE

aws sts assume-role-with-web-identity \
    --role-arn "${IAM_ROLE}" \
    --role-session-name "my-session" \
    --web-identity-token "${TOKEN}"
```

### Backup existing state <a name="backup"></a>

- Get Objects and existing authentication response

```bash
export BACKUP_PATH=$PWD/current-cluster
mkdir $BACKUP_PATH

oc get authentication -o yaml |tee -a $BACKUP_PATH/authentication.yaml

aws sts assume-role-with-web-identity \
    --role-arn "${IAM_ROLE}" \
    --role-session-name "my-session" \
    --web-identity-token "${TOKEN}" \
    | jq -r '.Credentials=""' \
    | tee ${BACKUP_PATH}/identities.json
```

- Save the current IAM Roles

```bash
aws iam list-roles \
    | jq -r  ".Roles[] | select(.RoleName | startswith(\"${CLUSTER_NAME}-openshift\"))" \

>     | tee ${BACKUP_PATH}/iam-roles.json

Reviewer: If there's application role created following https://docs.openshift.com/rosa/authentication/assuming-an-aws-iam-role-for-a-service-account.html, then the role name doesn't follow the style of ${CLUSTER_NAME}-openshift.
So better to add a note that this kind of case is NOT supported by the procedure.

Author: Done https://github.com/openshift/cloud-credential-operator/pull/515/commits/c8f24f602088c33f38f5cc1fd03430200eb0cc0b

```

## Migrate

### Setup new OIDC with CloudFront Distribution <a name="setup"></a>

#### Create the CloudFront Distribution <a name="setup-cloudfront"></a>

- Create the Origin Access Identity (OAI)

```bash
export DIR_CCO="./"
export OIDC_BUCKET_PATH="/pvt"

export OAI_CLOUDFRONT_ID=$(aws cloudfront create-cloud-front-origin-access-identity \
    --cloud-front-origin-access-identity-config \
    CallerReference="${OIDC_BUCKET_NAME}",Comment="OAI-${OIDC_BUCKET_NAME}" \

>     | jq -r .CloudFrontOriginAccessIdentity.Id)

Reviewer: I created a new user jshu-sts with inline policy + permission json listed at beginning.
It reported the following error.
[cloud-user@preserve-for-hive-test testdir]$ export OAI_CLOUDFRONT_ID=$(aws cloudfront create-cloud-front-origin-access-identity \
>     --cloud-front-origin-access-identity-config \
>     CallerReference="${OIDC_BUCKET_NAME}",Comment="OAI-${OIDC_BUCKET_NAME}" \
>     | jq -r .CloudFrontOriginAccessIdentity.Id)

An error occurred (AccessDenied) when calling the CreateCloudFrontOriginAccessIdentity operation: User: arn:aws:iam::301721915996:user/jshu-sts is not authorized to perform: cloudfront:CreateCloudFrontOriginAccessIdentity on resource: arn:aws:cloudfront::301721915996:origin-access-identity/* because no identity-based policy allows the cloudfront:CreateCloudFrontOriginAccessIdentity action

When I switched back my admin account, then it worked. Maybe the some required permission is missing.

```

- Create the CloudFront Distribution
```bash
# Should be updated to master before merging
#wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift/cloud-credential-operator/master/docs/sts-oidc-cloudfront.json.tpl
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mtulio/cloud-credential-operator/doc-sts-updates/docs/sts-oidc-cloudfront.json.tpl

cat sts-oidc-cloudfront.json.tpl \
   | envsubst \
   > ${DIR_CCO}/oidc-cloudfront.json

export CLOUDFRONT_HOST=$(aws cloudfront create-distribution-with-tags \
    --distribution-config-with-tags \
    file://${DIR_CCO}/oidc-cloudfront.json \

>     | jq -r .Distribution.DomainName)

Reviewer: Encountered issue when use jshu-sts instead of admin account.

[cloud-user@preserve-for-hive-test regular]$ export CLOUDFRONT_HOST=$(aws cloudfront create-distribution-with-tags \
>     --distribution-config-with-tags \
>     file://${DIR_CCO}/oidc-cloudfront.json \
>     | jq -r .Distribution.DomainName)

An error occurred (AccessDenied) when calling the CreateDistributionWithTags operation: User: arn:aws:iam::301721915996:user/jshu-sts is not authorized to perform: cloudfront:CreateDistribution on resource: arn:aws:cloudfront::301721915996:distribution/* because no identity-based policy allows the cloudfront:CreateDistribution action

Author: Done https://github.com/openshift/cloud-credential-operator/pull/515/commits/c8f24f602088c33f38f5cc1fd03430200eb0cc0b

    
    read -p "ATTENTION: The AssumeRolePolicyDocument for IAM Role(1) will be patched to the value of (2). Do you want to continue? [y/n]: " answer
    if [ -z "$answer" ] || [ "$answer" != "y" ]
    then
        echo "answer[$answer]. Canceling the operation.";
        break
    fi
    echo "Patching..."
    aws iam update-assume-role-policy \
        --role-name $ROLE_NAME \
        --policy-document file:///${PWD}/iam-roles-new-$ROLE_NAME.json
    echo "Done! Return code=$?"
done
```

- Patch the issuer URL to the new OIDC URL on the Authentication object:

```bash
oc patch authentication cluster \
    --type=merge \
    -p "{\"spec\":{\"serviceAccountIssuer\":\"https://${CLOUDFRONT_HOST}\"}}"
```

- Wait for the kube-apiserver rollout

> Wait to clean the `PROGRESSING=TRUE`. It could take some minutes to start and complete.

```bash
$ oc get co kube-apiserver -w
$ oc get pods -n openshift-kube-apiserver -l apiserver=true -w
```

- Restart all pods:

```bash
for I in $(oc get ns -o jsonpath='{range .items[*]} {.metadata.name}{"\n"} {end}'); \
      do oc delete pods --all -n $I; \
      sleep 1; \
      done
```

- Test the new token

> > Repeat the steps in the section "Test the existing token"

Reviewer: It is renamed to "Validate tokens"

> Make sure the JWT token has the CloudFront Distribution Domain name as the Issuer URL, field `.iss`

> Make sure you can assume the role correctly and the signer will be the CloudFront: `.Provider` in the answer from `assume-role-with-web-identity`

If you have completed these steps successfully, the cluster is using the new identity provider with AWS CloudFront.

### Revoke public access to the S3 Bucket<a name="revoke-s3-public-access"></a>

- Change the default policy blocking public access to the bucket:

```bash
aws s3api put-public-access-block \
    --bucket ${OIDC_BUCKET_NAME} \
    --public-access-block-configuration \

>     BlockPublicAcls=true,IgnorePublicAcls=true,BlockPublicPolicy=true,RestrictPublicBuckets=true

Reviewer: executed with user jshu-sts, reported the following error:
[cloud-user@preserve-for-hive-test testdir]$ aws s3api put-public-access-block     --bucket ${OIDC_BUCKET_NAME}     --public-access-block-configuration     BlockPublicAcls=false,IgnorePublicAcls=false,BlockPublicPolicy=false,RestrictPublicBuckets=false

An error occurred (AccessDenied) when calling the PutPublicAccessBlock operation: Access Denied

After switched back my admin user, it worked

```

- Test it (expected to fail [HTTP 403])

```bash
curl -vvv https://${OIDC_BUCKET_HOST}/keys.json
```

## Rollback to OIDC with S3 Public URL<a name="rollback"></a>

When the process to migrate to a private bucket has failed, and you want to roll back to the OIDC issuer URL pointing to the public S3 Bucket, you must follow the steps below.

- Reopen the bucket policy

```bash
aws s3api put-public-access-block \
    --bucket ${OIDC_BUCKET_NAME} \
    --public-access-block-configuration \

>     BlockPublicAcls=false,IgnorePublicAcls=false,BlockPublicPolicy=false,RestrictPublicBuckets=false

Reviewer: Same as above

Author: Done https://github.com/openshift/cloud-credential-operator/pull/515/commits/c8f24f602088c33f38f5cc1fd03430200eb0cc0b

export OIDC_ARN_S3=$(aws iam list-open-id-connect-providers | jq -r ".OpenIDConnectProviderList[] | select(.Arn | endswith(\"$OIDC_BUCKET_HOST\")).Arn")
export CLUSTER_NAME=$(aws iam list-open-id-connect-provider-tags --open-id-connect-provider-arn $OIDC_ARN_S3 | jq -r '.Tags[] | select(.Key=="Name").Value')
export OIDC_BUCKET_NAME=$(echo $OIDC_BUCKET_HOST | awk -F'.' '{print$1}')
export CLUSTER_REGION=$(echo $OIDC_BUCKET_HOST | awk -F'.' '{print$3}')
```

Check the discovered var values

> All the values must be discovered.

```bash
cat <<EOF
OIDC_BUCKET_HOST=$OIDC_BUCKET_HOST
OIDC_ARN_S3=$OIDC_ARN_S3
CLUSTER_NAME=$CLUSTER_NAME
OIDC_BUCKET_NAME=$OIDC_BUCKET_NAME
CLUSTER_REGION=$CLUSTER_REGION
EOF
```

3) Make sure you can reach (read) the S3 Bucket created with the default name

```bash
aws s3 ls --region $CLUSTER_REGION s3://$OIDC_BUCKET_NAME
```

4) A clean work directory: a lot of files will be created, make sure you switched to a new work directory to save the files properly (it can be used in the future for rollback)

5) An OpenShift user with cluster-admin permissions

6) AWS policies required by the agent running that steps:

```JSON

> {
>   "Version": "2012-10-17",
>   "Statement": [
>     {
>       "Sid": "Stmt1678336730279",
>       "Action": [
>         "iam:CreateOpenIDConnectProvider",
>         "iam:DeleteOpenIDConnectProvider",
>         "iam:GetRole",
>         "iam:ListOpenIDConnectProviderTags",
>         "iam:ListOpenIDConnectProviders",
>         "iam:ListRoles",
>         "iam:UpdateAssumeRolePolicy",
>         "cloudfront:CreateDistribution",
>         "cloudfront:CreateCloudFrontOriginAccessIdentity"
>       ],
>       "Effect": "Allow",
>       "Resource": "*"
>     },
>     {
>       "Sid": "Stmt1678336953197",
>       "Action": [
>         "s3:GetObject",
>         "s3:ListBucket",
>         "s3:PutObject",
>         "s3:PutPublicAccessBlock"
>       ],
>       "Effect": "Allow",
>       "Resource": "*"
>     }
>   ]
> }

Author: ```suggestion
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Sid": "Stmt1678336730279",
            "Action": [
                "iam:CreateOpenIDConnectProvider",
                "iam:DeleteOpenIDConnectProvider",
                "iam:GetRole",
                "iam:ListOpenIDConnectProviderTags",
                "iam:ListOpenIDConnectProviders",
                "iam:ListRoles",
                "iam:UpdateAssumeRolePolicy",
                "cloudfront:CreateDistribution",
                "cloudfront:CreateCloudFrontOriginAccessIdentity",
                "cloudfront:TagResource"
            ],
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Resource": "*"
        },
        {
            "Sid": "Stmt1678336953197",
            "Action": [
                "s3:GetObject",
                "s3:ListBucket",
                "s3:PutObject",
                "s3:PutBucketPublicAccessBlock",
                "s3:PutBucketPolicy"
            ],
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Resource": "*"
        }
    ]
}
```

```

> 

Reviewer: Here is the updated json after my testing.

{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Sid": "Stmt1678336730279",
            "Action": [
                "iam:CreateOpenIDConnectProvider",
                "iam:DeleteOpenIDConnectProvider",
                "iam:GetRole",
                "iam:ListOpenIDConnectProviderTags",
                "iam:ListOpenIDConnectProviders",
                "iam:ListRoles",
                "iam:UpdateAssumeRolePolicy",
                "cloudfront:CreateDistribution",
                "cloudfront:CreateCloudFrontOriginAccessIdentity",
                "cloudfront:TagResource"
            ],
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Resource": "*"
        },
        {
            "Sid": "Stmt1678336953197",
            "Action": [
                "s3:GetObject",
                "s3:ListBucket",
                "s3:PutObject",
                "s3:PutBucketPublicAccessBlock",
                "s3:PutBucketPolicy"
            ],
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Resource": "*"
        }
    ]
}
